---
layout: post
title: Tried Using Feedly, a Service to Subscribe to Blogs via RSS
image: "https://raw.githubusercontent.com/noraworld/blog-content/main/feedly/feedly_icon.png"
date: '2016-05-12 11:16:07'
tags:
- service
- useful
---

I enjoy reading people's blogs, so I often stealthily browse through them.

There's no real issue, but I thought it would be nice to get notifications when a blog is updated, so I started using Feedly, an RSS reader.

The basics of what RSS is and how to use Feedly are covered on many other sites, so I'll skip that here. This time, I'll introduce an environment where I personally enjoy them comfortably.

### First, Create an Account
First, sign up for an account on the <a href="https://feedly.com" target="_blank">Feedly</a> website. There are several login methods, such as Google, Facebook, or Twitter, but I registered with Feedly. Any option is fine.

### Install Extensions
To use Feedly comfortably, it's preferable to get automatic notifications of blog updates without having to go to the Feedly site every time. So first, install an extension that notifies you when there's an update to a blog registered in Feedly.

<a href="https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/feedly-notifier/egikgfbhipinieabdmcpigejkaomgjgb?utm_source=chrome-ntp-icon" target="_blank">Feedly Notifier - Chrome Web Store</a>

After installing this extension and logging into Feedly, the number of unread posts on the blogs registered in Feedly is displayed with a badge. Initially, mark everything as read and set the unread count to 0, and then the unread count will automatically update and display when there are new posts.

Moreover, when there are unread posts, clicking the icon shows a list of unread articles, and you can immediately go to the site by clicking the link. You can quickly check blog updates!

Next, if you want to add a blog to Feedly, it's tedious to go to the Feedly site each time to enter the URL and register it. You'd want to register without going to the Feedly site. So, install this extension.

<a href="https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/feedly-subscribe-button/gbbnddjfcllebfcnihfgmdplgaiejepc?utm_source=chrome-ntp-icon" target="_blank">Feedly Subscribe Button - Chrome Web Store</a>

After installing this extension, a Feedly icon is displayed at the top right. Usually, it's gray, but when you access a site (blog) that supports RSS (or Atom), it turns green. When you click the icon in its green state, a Feedly registration link is displayed, and by clicking the link, you can register that blog on Feedly. Convenient!

RSS is supported by most blogging services like Ameba Blog, FC2, livedoor, Hatena Blog, tumblr, etc. Of course, this blog also supports RSS!

Sometimes you can choose between RSS or Atom when registering, but generally, RSS is fine.

### Summary
By using the Feedly Subscribe Button to register blogs and checking for updates with Feedly Notifier, there's no need to check multiple blogs or visit the Feedly site to confirm updates, making it very convenient!

I intend to make full use of it from here on out!
