---
layout: post
title: "Looking Back at the Dumpster Fire That Was 2025"
author: [
  "noraworld"
]
description: "Spilling my feelings reflecting on the year 2025"
# https://chatgpt.com/c/69554d14-3490-8323-a88b-2a344fef4fff
image: "https://noraworld.github.io/box-ivysaur/2025/12/31/2681cb179d2c10c39be4eefcd02844e2.jpg"
date: 2025-12-31 22:22:22 +09:00
tags: []
published: true
---

I'm starting to write this blog at 10:22 PM on December 31. In just about an hour and a half, this year will be over. I hadn’t planned on writing a blog at the end of the year, but I decided a few hours ago to try and wrap up this year, and here I am, writing this post.

Well, this year wasn’t great either.



### Work
Since returning to Japan from Australia around the end of October last year, I've been working as a freelancer. I’ve been hopping from project to project rather than sticking with one company. The first freelance project I took on last year ended in December, and I wasn't doing much work in January. In February, I started working on another project, but that ended in April.

The whole "working eight hours a day, five days a week" thing doesn’t suit me. If I'm working all the time, it's difficult to start my own thing or take proper breaks. But at that company, I couldn't reduce my hours, and the contract ended in April.

I explained the situation to my freelance agent at the time, and they found me a part-time project, but it was only for a short term, ending as early as the end of August, or at the latest by the end of September. It wasn’t a continuous service maintenance project but rather one that ended after adjusting the specifications according to the client's requests.

Moreover, it wasn't team-based development; it was about being handed specifications and developing it solo for delivery. I had never worked in such an environment before. The schedule and days of operation were quite flexible. Yet, it was a simple system for a specific company, and I struggled to find motivation. In the end, I couldn't deliver and had to stop midway. I needed a steady 3-day per week project, but this wasn’t it.

During that time, I wasn't working much. My motivation for work was extremely low. Since the end of the project in April, I hardly worked at all. But the savings from the rewards received then were running out, and I was receiving frequent tax and insurance payment demands. Realizing the urgency, I decided to start working again around September. After a few interviews, I began working with a new company from October 16, which also happened to be my 30th birthday as I mentioned in [My 30th Birthday](https://noraworld.github.io/blog/30th-birthday).

I still wish to work about three days a week, but my current project is a typical five-days, eight-hour job. Hence, I couldn't fulfill this desire this year. It's similar to being a full-time employee, except for the aspect of commuting. Employees seem to have to commute thrice a week from 10 AM, but as a freelancer, I mostly work remotely. Still, the company prefers communication in person, and given my lack of interaction outside shopping, I decided it’s good to talk to people, so I agreed to go to the office one afternoon a week. Commuting is bothersome, but for an afternoon each week, I manage.

My relationships at my current job are fairly good. As a freelancer, I'm limited to certain Slack channels, so I can't engage much with employees, and besides, I spend less time in the office, which can feel a bit lonely. But work relationships can only go so far, so I think this is fine. I have no issues with work communication, and it's smooth.

From a work conditions perspective, unfortunately, I'm not completely satisfied with this company either. Yet, given this year and last year, I've barely worked, leading to significant financial hardship as I mentioned in [My 30th Birthday](https://noraworld.github.io/blog/30th-birthday). I've still not paid taxes or insurance for this year, and the final deadlines are approaching. Consequently, I plan to stick with this company for a while. I’m not looking to switch companies or projects unless they decide to terminate the contract.

Good work relationships are crucial for me, and you can’t always tell from just interviews—it’s a gamble. Honestly, the company from the project ending in April was quite lively and engaging, so I've been relatively lucky. But the company for the first freelance project last year was terrible, so it's clear I can't always expect good projects from companies. Considering the financial difficulties, impulsively changing projects now might not be a smart move.



### Financial Struggles
Since finances came up, let’s address that. Financially, this year has been rough. The reason is obvious—I haven't worked much. As the year-end approaches, tax and insurance payment demands grow more frequent, adding mental strain. Getting repeated calls and notices to pay when I can’t is genuinely stressful. In this capitalist society, it's understandable to think that it's your fault for not working, but anyone with that mindset shouldn't bother reading this blog again.

The taxes I have to pay are the residence tax and income tax. Income tax needs to be filed between February and March next year, and the deductions occur in April. I'm not too worried about that as I expect to be financially stable by then, plus it's auto-deducted. However, for residence tax, I've yet to pay a single yen for this year, and the deadlines for about three out of four installments have already passed. Yet, I haven’t been able to pay, so the demands keep coming. I’ll have to pay it all by January next year or risk seizure.

Tax isn’t the only financial burden. There are also insurance payments which feel like taxes. Living in Japan leaves no option as health insurance is mandatory. How is it different from taxes?

There are two types of insurance—health insurance and pension insurance. Both require monthly payments. I’ve managed to pay for June, July, and October health insurance, but haven’t paid for the others, leaving more than half unpaid. As for pensions, I'm not currently in arrears. So the remaining months I need to pay are December, January, February, and March. The deadline for the December payment is at the end of January, so I haven’t paid it yet. I don't get why pensions are mandatory. It’s becoming burdensome for younger generations with the declining population, and who knows if I’ll ever see any returns from what I've paid in [if records disappear.](https://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/%E5%B9%B4%E9%87%91%E8%A8%98%E9%8C%B2%E5%95%8F%E9%A1%8C)

On top of that, I've heard that healthcare is expensive due to politicians being in bed with the medical association. I rarely visit the doctor, yet I pay a high insurance fee (higher than taxes) for the off chance I might need it, which isn't optional—making it tax-like. I get insurance is a collective system, but how many young people agree with it being hijacked by those older than us? “You too will be old someday”? Hardly, given demographic trends, today's elderly privileges aren't likely ours.

Even if it were extra cash being used to pay these, the repeated demands for unpaid obligations are infuriating—especially when contacting pension offices who said waivers wouldn’t be granted and it’s their “duty”—absurd from someone who probably benefits from the system given their voice sounded senior. This reminder brings back those feelings.

This year, like last, my financial situation has been difficult by year's end. It's no surprise since I haven’t worked much, but in this capitalist system, my unease and dislike for working persist, making my will to work low. I’ve been considering writing about this in another entry but haven’t managed to, as it's a heavy topic unlikely relatable to most here. Maybe someday I’ll write something brief. There are individuals in this country who advocate for implementing basic income or similar.

For now, I don't plan on discontinuing my current project, so I'll likely remain in Japan; however, if living here becomes too stressful, I may consider moving abroad again. After a tough stint in Australia last year (which I never blogged about because I found it burdensome), I'm not rushing overseas anytime soon, but I don't want to stagnate here, feeling like I'm neither truly living nor dead. Therefore, I'd like to keep the option open. After all, I have no partner to worry about now. Moving abroad on a negative motive may not yield positive outcomes, and with a character not fond of interaction, the living-sharing norm overseas might not suit me anyhow.



### No Girlfriend This Year Either
Speaking of partners, I didn’t get a girlfriend this year either. Even though I wanted one at some point, nothing changed from previous years. I had neither the opportunities for meeting someone nor the motivation to actively search. Dating apps don't appeal to me. I think the first time I used them was in 2019, and since then, I'd start and stop, start again, and stop again. But lately, the periods in which I use them are growing shorter and the gaps in between are getting longer. I would say I've been off those apps way more than on.

I have bickers about dating apps, and I thought about making it another entry, though I haven’t decided when or even if I will. So, I figured I’d share my thoughts here as they come to mind.

Firstly, there’s the fact that men are usually charged. This was hotly debated in Japan a while back, and it seems to have started with a tweet from a woman named Eimi Fukada. I don't intend to thoroughly explain my views, but as a principle, unless someone is family, you should pay your bill. Expecting a stranger to cover your expenses is absurd. While I understand the notion that men should treat women in times when women were not financially independent, this is now outdated.

In an era advocating for gender equality with equal employment opportunities law, the notion that women should still be treated is baffling. If a woman claims her income is low, it reflects on her abilities more than the need for a treat (which is not universally true, obviously).

The etiquette around treating is personal, yet it ties to a larger issue: most dating apps charge men and let women use them for free (though some services differ). Since there's a need to subsidize the free usage for women, the services are costly—about 4,000 to 5,000 yen monthly, even for basic features like messaging. Adding options to promote oneself incurs even more costs. Contrast this with gym memberships or self-improvement courses, and the app fees hardly seem worthwhile.

It’s not that I can't pay these fees, but the gains from using the app are minimal. Even paying doesn't guarantee matches. On some apps, getting a match from tens of attempts is good. This isn’t the end; messaging and arranging dates are separate hurdles, followed by potentially dating. Without at least reaching this stage, there’s little reason to use the app, and it’s unsure how much time, effort, and money it would take to get there.

Moreover, for women, it seems they have enough interactions coming their way without doing much, similar to a monopoly. Matches might end abruptly as they find better prospects—a situation common to both genders. What’s disappointing is that accidental likes and false hopes occur often. You spend money to use a dating app, make the first move, and yet these situations occur frequently—leaving one feeling cheated. The effort feels disproportionate to returns. Hence, there’s no motivation. Moreover, continuing to pay app fees without securing any prospects seems futile. Hence, I lose interest.

Recently, although I hardly used the apps, I still got likes which all turned out to be mistakes. They never responded to messages. If they had returned with a "Sorry, I clicked like by mistake and didn’t mean to," it’d be rude and hurtful. Ignoring is kind, and blocking me avoids false hope. However, being led on is disappointing, and it’s questionable to have services enabling such practices. 

This section turned out longer than intended; I have no motivation for apps, and I don’t have many day-to-day social opportunities. Thus, next year too looks dim for relationships. However, not having a girlfriend or spouse makes relocating abroad easier. Perhaps it’s a matter of time before either I find a girlfriend or I leave this country out of frustration.

For men paying fees and women expected to be treated, these cultural aspects are specific to places like East Asia and not universal.



### Conclusion
I spend every year similarly, and this year was no exception, with few gains and no memorable joy. It was a mundane and taxing year, especially struggling to pay taxes and insurance. Life is dull and tough with complaints in every direction, making me question why I persist. Sometimes, confusion about working to live or working to fund taxes creeps in, leaving me unsure of daily enjoyment. I occasionally descend into depression, unable to move or get up.

There's no grand mission in life nor obligation, life is void and can be led however. Although this thought briefly fills me with hope and determination, I haven’t realized or found my ideal way to live yet. If I encountered more opportunities, I might learn something through them, but so far, none have arrived. Candidly, life feels stuck.

I’ve considered visiting a bar, but I haven’t acted on it. Once taxes are settled after the New Year, I might try visiting a bar—although I don’t drink, so perhaps a non-alcoholic bar.



### Happy New Year
Once I start writing, I tend to overshoot my writing intentions, taking longer than anticipated, a bad habit of mine. Despite starting at about 10:30 PM, it’s now 12:45 AM. I've been typing non-stop for over two hours. Fatigue and jumbled thoughts occur because of this, but I’m bad at wrapping up. Writing isn’t my strong suit, nor was I good at language in school—it can’t be helped. I meant to finish this before New Year but, unsurprisingly, ended up still writing as the clock struck midnight.

Happy New Year. I don’t know who’s reading this, but I wish you all the best this year.
