---
layout: post
title: No title
date: '2016-04-26 11:03:18'
tags:
- favorite
---

I wanted to share the music I often listen to, so here it is.

### No title
<iframe width="800" height="450" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/LfephiFN76E?rel=0&amp;showinfo=0" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### First Encounter
The first time I heard this song was probably when I was a freshman in college, and I was into Vocaloid.

I got really hooked on Vocaloid when I was in high school and listened almost exclusively to it for a while. At the time, there was a wide range of Vocaloid songs, from pop to jazz-like tunes, and every day I would visit YouTube and Nico Nico Douga to discover new Vocaloid music.

In high school, my friends were also into Vocaloid, and we would get excited discussing which Vocaloid songs we liked, as well as about Vocaloid producers (those who create Vocaloid songs) and singers.

After entering college, I rarely met up with my high school friends. Around that time, I began to drift away from Vocaloid.

It was at that time that I stumbled upon this song and took a liking to it. I wasn’t as into Vocaloid as I was back in high school, so I don’t quite remember how I came to know about this song.

However, I immediately liked it upon hearing it, which made me realize once more that I do indeed like Vocaloid.

### About No title
The video above is the music video for a song called "No title," sung by Reol, who also wrote the lyrics. I believe this song was created for her to sing herself, so it might not be a Vocaloid song per se. However, since Reol originally uploaded videos of herself singing songs created by Vocaloid producers on sites like Nico Nico Douga, I associate it with Vocaloid.

Reol initially gained fame as a singer on Nico Nico Douga and later began singing songs she had written herself. Now, she releases albums.

This song gives me a peculiar feeling I can’t quite express; it’s calming yet invigorating at the same time. Also, I personally love Reol’s voice, so I instantly fell for this song the first time I heard it.

### Personal Attachment
I didn’t listen to Vocaloid much after starting college, but I’ve recently started listening to it again. I find myself reminiscing about how much I loved certain songs back in the day or realizing I still like them just as much now.

I’m not sure how popular Vocaloid is today compared to back then, but there were probably many people who loved Vocaloid as much as I did when I was in high school.

There are many other Vocaloid songs I truly love, so I might introduce them again when I feel like it—or maybe not, haha.

<a href="https://www.youtube.com/user/reolch/" target="_blank">REOL Official - YouTube</a>
